---
layout: post
title: Reboot
category: Meta
---

Here we go again. Type Dom is back after a brief (not really) hiatus and with a bunch of new changes.

##Jekyll
The biggest change is that I've moved over to Jekyll, so the blog now a static site. After having spent 10ish years on Wordpress, I was eager for the change. Wordpress started to feel very cumbersome and a burden for the simple use that I had for it. All I really need is a simple blogging platform, and while I could have gone with a service like Tumblr, I'm a little picky about the details of the blog and wanted a bit more control than those kinds of services can offer. I did think about Ghost, the younger and increasingly popular cousin to Wordpress, or even Hugo, the super fast static blogging platform, but I thought that Jekyll has to be popular for a reason and decided to just jump on board.

Ultimately, the switch to Jekyll doesn't mean much to you the reader, apart from faster loading times. But to me its a bit of a refreshing change to the process of writing and posting blogs, writing in Markdown and using nano (like the filthy Unix/Mac OS user I am) rather than the Wordpress WYSIWYG just feels nicer, and I can run a local version on my MacBook instead of having to constantly be online. Maybe there's something in the more fiddly process that I like.

##Design
So with the change to Jekyll, I had to change the design of the site. It's currently running a self modified version of the hyde theme, which I scrapped together quickly to get the site up and running. It's a bit bare right now, but the sidebar should start to fill up with post categories and other pages as the blog comes along. I consider it a work in progress, so it'll be changing over time.

As far as photos go, I've not really found a way of doing photo galleries on Jekyll that I like, so that might take a bit more time to get to. There are various plugins/Ruby gems that do photo galleries, but they all seem to be aimed at tiling photographs, which isn't something I particularly want. I may end up just having to write my own template for photos.

Also, I'm not too sure I like the sidebar on tablets. I checked with my iPad and it seemed like the sidebar took up half the screen, so I may have to tweak the page to go into "mobile" mode at wider screen resolutions.

##Domain Name
We're in the .com era now. I originally didn't want to use .com because of the rhyme, but I think its time embrace the cheese. I don't think I'll be renewing the .net domain, so if you're linking to me, please switch that over.

##No more comments
Not that anyone commented anyway. I'm not that interested in implementing a Disqus or some other commenting service, so just hit me up on the ever decreasing social medias I use (@typedom usually).

As I said earlier, I consider this still a work in progress and if you find anything broken, please contact me.
